---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}
------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Pontifical Catholic University of Chile** 2019 - Present


Assistant Professor 

Department of Mechanical Engineering

Institute of Biological and Medical Engineering.


Education
=========

**Pontifical Catholic University of Chile** 2019


Postdoctoral fellow at the Institute of Biological and Medical Engineering.


**Stanford University** 2014 - December 2018


Ph.D in Mechanical Engineering, Living Matter Laboratory.


**University of California, San Francisco** March - April 2011


Visiting Scholar

**Washington State University** January - February 2011


Visiting Scholar

**Pontifical Catholic University of Chile**

Master of Engineering Science 2010 - 2011


Graduated summa cum laude.

Mechanical Engineering 2005 - 2011


Graduated summa cum laude.

Educational Experience
======================

**Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile**, Mechanical Engineering.
2012 - 2014


Instructor: Teaching "Solid Mechanics" and "Product Design Workshop\".


**Universidad de los Andes** March - July 2012


Instructor: teaching "Statics".

Professional Experience
=======================

**Wenco S.A.** 2012 - 2014


R&D Engineer.

Publications
============

**F. Sahli**, P. Perdikaris, E. Kuhl, DE. Hurtado. Multi-fidelity
classification using Gaussian processes: accelerating the prediction of
large-scale computational models. *Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics
and Engineering, accepted (2019).*

M. Peirlinck, **F, Sahli**, KL. Sack, JS. Choy, GS. Kassab, JM.
Guccione, M. De Beule, P. Segers, E. Kuhl. Using machine learning to
characterize heart failure across the scales. *Biomechanics and Modeling
in Mechanobiology. 2019; doi:10.1007/s10237-019-01190-w.*

**F. Sahli**, JS. Choy, KL. Sack, JM. Guccione, G. Kassab, E. Kuhl.
Multiscale characterization of heart failure. *Acta Biomaterialia, no.
86 (2019): 66-76*

**F. Sahli**, K. Matsuno, J. Yao, P. Perdikaris, E. Kuhl. Machine
learning in drug development: Characterizing the effect of 30 drugs on
the QT interval using Gaussian process regression, sensitivity analysis,
and uncertainty quantification. *Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics
and Engineering, no. 348 (2019): 313-333*

**F. Sahli**, A. Sher, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. Predicting critical drug
concentrations and torsadogenic risk using a multiscale
exposure-response simulator. *Progress in Biophysics and Molecular
Biology (2019); doi:10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2018.10.003*

**F. Sahli**, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. Predicting drug-induced arrhythmias by
multiscale modeling. *International journal for numerical methods in
biomedical engineering 34, no. 5 (2018): e2964.*

**F. Sahli**, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. Predicting the cardiac toxicity of drugs
using a novel multiscale exposure--response simulator. *Computer methods
in biomechanics and biomedical engineering 21, no. 3 (2018): 232-246.*

**F. Sahli**, JAB. Zaman, E. Kuhl, SM. Narayan. Interpreting activation
mapping of atrial fibrillation: A hybrid computational/physiological
study. *Annals of biomedical engineering 46, no. 2 (2018): 257-269.*

**F. Sahli**, FA. Concha, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. The importance of
mechano-electrical feedback and inertia in cardiac electromechanics.
*Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, no. 320 (2017):
352-368.*

**F. Sahli**, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. Generating Purkinje networks in the
human heart. *Journal of Biomechanics no. 49 (2016): 2455-2465.*

**F. Sahli**, J. Cuellar, A. Perez, AJ. Fields, M. Campos, J.
Ramos-Grez. Structural parameters determining the strength of the
porcine vertebral body affected by tumors. *Computer Methods in
Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering 18, no 8 (2015): 890-899.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, and JC. Lotz. Seeing double: a
comparison of microstructure, biomechanical function, and adjacent disc
health between double-and single-Layer vertebral endplates. *Spine 37,
no. 21 (2012): E1310-E1317.*

A. Hamdan, **F. Sahli**, R. Richards, and C. Richards. Characterization
of a dielectric microdroplet thermal interface material with dispersed
nanoparticles. *Journal of Nanoparticle Research 14, no. 9 (2012): 1-8.*

Pre-prints, Conference Proceedings & Others
===========================================

**F. Sahli**, K. Seo, E. Ashley, E. Kuhl. Classifying drugs by their
arrhythmogenic risk using machine learning. bioRxiv. doi:10.1101/545863.

**F. Sahli**, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. A high resolution multiscale model to
study drug-induced arrhythmias (2018). *World Congress on Computational
Mechanics*

**F. Sahli**, FA. Concha, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. The importance of
mechano-electrical feedback and inertia in cardiac electromechanics
(2017). *U.S. National Congress of Computational Mechanics*

SM. Narayan, T. Baykaner, F Sahli, E. Kuhl. Terminating atrial
fibrillation by cooling the heart. Editorial Commentary in *Heart
Rhythm. 2016;13:2259-2260*

**F. Sahli**, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. Generating Purkinje networks in the
human heart (2016). *World Congress of Computational Mechanics.*

**F. Sahli**, J. Cuellar, A. Pérez, M. Campos, J. Ramos-Grez (2011).
Estudio mediante elementos finitos de vértebras porcinas afectadas por
tumores simulados. *X Jornadas de mecánica computacional.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, J. Ramos-Grez, TM. Keaveny, JC.
Lotz (2011). Effects of endplate microstructure on biomechanical
integrity. *New Horizons in intervertebral disc research.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, J. Ramos-Grez, TM. Keaveny, JC.
Lotz (2011). Comparison of biomechanical behavior, morphology, and disc
health between double-layer and single-layer endplates. *Orthopedic
Research Society 2012 Annual Meeting.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, J. Ramos-Grez, TM. Keaveny, JC.
Lotz (2011). Influence of endplate morphology on biomechanical behavior
in double-layer endplates. *Orthopedic Research Society 2012 Annual
Meeting*.

Awards
======

**FONDECYT - Postdoctoral grant:** (2019). I obtained funding for my
research in drug induced arrhythmias for 3 years.

**School of Engineering Postdoctoral Fellowship:** (Pontifical Catholic
University of Chile, 2019). Funds one year of postdoctoral projects.

**Travel award:** (Newton Institute). To attend workshop in uncertainty
quantification for cardiac models.

**CO-PI in XSEDE grant:** (2018). We were awarded 650,000 cpu-hours to
study drug-induced arrhythmias using high performance computing.

**Hyperion innovation excellence award:** (2017). For the development of
a computational model to predict drug-induced arrhythmias.

**Avonni - Industrial Category:** (National Innovation Award, Chile,
2015). At Wenco S.A., I developed a crate to export fruits that saves
millions of dollars in raw materials.

**Stanford School of Engineering Fellowship** (2014-2016)

**Fulbright-CONICYT Ph.D Fellowship** (2014-2018): Fund to complete
doctoral studies.

**Ismael Valdes Award:** (Chilean Institute of Engineers, 2013). Granted
to one engineer per school who demonstrates leadership skills, high
moral standards and technical preparation.

**Mario Hiriart Award:** (Pontifical Catholic University of Chile,
2012). Granted to one student of the School of Engineering who combines
academic excellence with humanitarian values.

**Best Thesis of the Department of Mechanical Engineering:** (School of
Engineering, Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, 2012).

**Honor Roll** (School of Engineering, Pontifical Catholic University of
Chile, 2005) Scholarship awarded during the first year for maximum score
in the mathematics university selection test.

Patents
=======

Light and integrated junction system of the walls of a collapsible
container.\
United States US20150284135A1, filed March 5, 2015. Inventors: Francisco
Sahli, Pedro Chinni.

Bottom of a container that optimizes the use of material.\
United States US20150283745A1, filed March 5, 2015. Inventors: Francisco
Sahli, Pedro Chinni.

Journal Reviewer
================

Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering.

Applied Mechanics Reviews.

Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids.

Annals of Biomedical Engineering

Computers in Biology and Medicine

